.TH DAFFM 1 daffm\-VERSION
.SH NAME
daffm \- dumb as fuck file manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B daffm
.RB [ \-c
.IR config-file ]
.RB [ directory_or_file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B daffm
is a dumb file manager/directory explorer that is meant to integrate with system utils for file management features.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config " config-path"
Load toml config from file. If path is prefixed with @, will use alternate config.
  Example: \-c @foo will load $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/daffm/config.foo.toml
  Default: $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/daffm/config.toml
.TP
.B \-v
Prints version information.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Prints help information.


.SH CONFIGURATION
.TP
.B keymap
A mapping of key sequences to the commands.
  Example: gdl = "cd ~/Downloads"

.TP
.B extend
Which config file to extend. This can use file paths or @-prefix for alternate configs
  Example: extend = "@custom-config"

.TP
.B opener
Shell script that is executed when open command is invoked on a file.
  Example: extend = "xdg-open %" # Opens file under cursor (ignores selections)


.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B back
Goes back one level in directory.

.TP
.B cd <dir>
Change current directory shown.

.TP
.B cmdline-enter
Switch focus to the command line input

.TP
.B cmdline-leave
Exit cmdline if focused

.TP
.B cmdline-set <text ...>
Enter the command line input with given text prefilled

.TP
.B eval <command> [...args]
Runs command in shell. Any line in stdout that begins with <daffm> is evaluated as a daffm command. This can be used to create more dynamic commands and keybinds.

.TP
.B map <key-sequence> <command>
Add a new keymap to run given command when the key sequence is pressed

.TP
.B move <pos>
Move the cursor to position. To move the cursor relative to current position, use +/- (eg: 'move +1' goes down 5 lines). You can also use 'move $' to move the cursor to the last item in the list.

.TP
.B open
If cursor is on a directory, cd into the directory, otherwise, run opener

.TP
.B quit
Quit

.TP
.B reload
Reloads the current directory and shows the latest information. Daffm doesn't watch the directory for changes but after a call to a shell or eval command, the directory contents are reloaded.

.TP
.B search [text]
Search the given text in the filenames in current directory. If text is empty, stops search highlighting

.TP
.B search-next
Jump to next item in the search results

.TP
.B search-prev
Jump to previous item in the search results

.TP
.B selection-clear
Clear all selections

.TP
.B selection-toggle
Toggle selection for file under cursor

.TP
.B shell <command> [...args]
Run a command in shell. If a command exits with non-zero status code, a "Press any key to continue" prompt is shown.

.TP
.B shell! <command> [...args]
Same as shell but it adds a "Press any key to continue" prompt after the command runs regardless of exit status code.



.SH COMMAND SUBSTITUIONS
The following pattern (%,%d,%f,%s,%F,%S) are replaced with absolute paths

%: File under cursor

%d: Current directory

%s: Selected files separated by spaces

%S: Selected files separated by newlines

%f: Same as %s but if there are no selections, uses file under cursor

%F: Same as %S but if there are no selections, uses file under cursor


.SH AUTHORS
Akshay Nair <phenax5@gmail.com>

.SH LICENSE
See the LICENSE file for the terms of redistribution.

.SH BUGS AND FEATURE REQUESTS
https://github.com/phenax/daffm/issues

